#### Article 31 · January 3, 2019

# Mind Minding

### Confessions of a Meditator

I'm sitting, soundless, breathing deep,

Upon my belly, upturned hands,

As one would in the blinds of sleep,

My mind drifts towards foreign lands.

And as I see this misdemeanour,

My mind's misconduct, growing keener,

It breeds upon a world of nothing,

Unseeing that goal that is upcoming...

It tries to run away again,

So like an arrow unleashed now,

One from a bow-string made of bough,

It tries again to break its chain.

As I sit still and try to mind,

My mind, my mind is unaligned.

...

It dreams of dreams gone by and by,

It dreams of futures burning bright,

Like lakes and castles in the sky,

It dreams of dreams if can't rewrite.

And sounds and colours through my eyes,

That chance upon my mind like lies,

It names them — often simple words,

Turn black to white, and bees to birds.

And as my body runs away,

My mind in panic throws a fright,

Like armies glimpsing foes in sight,

It pounces like a beast astray.

And Like a demon unexiled,

It celebrates its triumph wild

...

But I keep going, unconcerned,

About the concerns of my mind,

Its little wins, its bridges burned ,

I turn away. I leave behind.

The need to name things, abstract thoughts,

The need to judge things, casting lots,

With this or that thing right or wrong,

A word less poem, A soundless song.

And with each sitting, I feel calm,

Some good to do, some good to feel,

The pain that gathers head to heel,

Is like a soothening touch of balm.

And with each sitting, my mind unchains,

A bit by bit, like drops in rains.