#### Article 216 · February 28, 2020

### 2020 Sri Lankan General Election

# Jumpers

### A Brief History of Parliamentary Crossovers

The next Sri Lankan general election will likely be in April or May. Which party will you vote for?

You might reply, "What is a party, but for its politicians? And if all the politicians in a party have recently jumped ship from another party, has that party any integrity? And is that party worth your vote?"

Fair point.

In this article, I try to answer the question, "Which side does a politician actually belong to?" by analyzing "on which side" our MPs have spent their parliamentary tenure.

## The Methodology

My analysis of "Which side does a politician actually belong to?" is based on a Recency Weighted % of Time Spent in Party metric. I look at the time each member as spent loyal to a political party, and weight it by recency. So that more recent time counts for more than time in the distant past.

For simplicity, I define "loyal to a political party" as loyal to the "blue side" (SLFP, PA, UPFA alliances) or the "green side" (UNP, UNF, UNFGG alliances). I've counted the "blue" alliance members who joined the "majority-green" National Government as still "loyal to blue" given that the government was a "National" Government. I've grouped "third" parties that supported blue as blue, and green as green.

"Recency Weighting" works by applying a "half life" of 3 years to the membership. Membership 3 years ago has half the weight of membership today. 6 years ago, has a fourth and so on.

My analysis begins in 2000, until the 2019 presidential election.

## The Results

>>> 